README.md, before:

# Holistic InfoSec For Web Developers

To access the training (which is now behind the book), head on over to the [wiki](https://github.com/binarymist/HolisticInfoSec-For-WebDevelopers/wiki/BinaryMist-Approach-To-Threat-Modelling) to get started.

The contents of the book that's currently under way is listed below. The actual book can be found [here](https://leanpub.com/holistic-infosec-for-web-developers).

[![BinaryMist Limited](manuscript/images/BM-DesignBuildBreak.png)](http://binarymist.net/)

<br>

## Table of Contents

* Foreward (by ?)
* [Preface](manuscript/markdown/front/preface.md)
* [Introduction](manuscript/markdown/front/introduction.md)
* [Chapter 1: The 30,000' View](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter1.md)
* [Chapter 2: The 10,000' View](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter2.md)
* [Chapter 3: Tooling Setup](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter3.md)
* [Chapter 4: Process](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter4.md)
* [Chapter 5: Physical](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter5.md)
* [Chapter 6: IoT](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter6.md)
* [Chapter 7: Mobile](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter7.md)
* [Chapter 8: People](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter8.md)
* [Chapter 9: Cloud](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter9.md)
* [Chapter 10: VPS](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter10.md)
* [Chapter 11: Network](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter11.md)
* [Chapter 12: Web App](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter12.md)
* [Additional Resources](manuscript/markdown/back/additional-resources.md)
* [Attributions](manuscript/markdown/back/attributions.md)

Commit message:

Added invite to submit issues to github README. Fixed markdown cross-link & some grammar.

README.md, after:

# Holistic InfoSec For Web Developers

To access the training (which is now behind the book), head on over to the [wiki](https://github.com/binarymist/HolisticInfoSec-For-WebDevelopers/wiki/BinaryMist-Approach-To-Threat-Modelling) to get started.

The contents of the book that's currently under way is listed below. The actual book can be found [here](https://leanpub.com/holistic-infosec-for-web-developers).

If there is something you would like to see included in the book, please [submit an issue](https://github.com/binarymist/HolisticInfoSec-For-WebDevelopers/issues).

[![BinaryMist Limited](manuscript/images/BM-DesignBuildBreak.png)](http://binarymist.net/)

<br>

## Table of Contents

* Foreward (by ?)
* [Preface](manuscript/markdown/front/preface.md)
* [Introduction](manuscript/markdown/front/introduction.md)
* [Chapter 1: The 30,000' View](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter1.md)
* [Chapter 2: The 10,000' View](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter2.md)
* [Chapter 3: Tooling Setup](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter3.md)
* [Chapter 4: Process](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter4.md)
* [Chapter 5: Physical](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter5.md)
* [Chapter 6: IoT](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter6.md)
* [Chapter 7: Mobile](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter7.md)
* [Chapter 8: People](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter8.md)
* [Chapter 9: Cloud](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter9.md)
* [Chapter 10: VPS](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter10.md)
* [Chapter 11: Network](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter11.md)
* [Chapter 12: Web App](manuscript/markdown/main/chapter12.md)
* [Additional Resources](manuscript/markdown/back/additional-resources.md)
* [Attributions](manuscript/markdown/back/attributions.md)
