manuscript/markdown/main/chapter4.md, before:

# Process {#process}

_Todo_

%% This chapter needs to be about the process of carrying out penetration testing.
%% From the pentesters point of view
%%    and
%% From the web developers point of view

%% This should probably follow a process similar to the WDCNZ talk.

## Penetration Testing

_Todo_

### Reconnaissance

_Todo_

### Vulnerability Scanning

_Todo_

### Vulnerability Searching

   Offensive Security's Exploit Database https://www.exploit-db.com/
      and their searchsploit tool: https://github.com/offensive-security/exploit-database/blob/master/searchsploit
   Security Fucus www.securityfocus.com/bid
   Querying Metasploit

_Todo_

### Exploitation

During this stage, thinking about and recording countermeasures for the vulnerabilities you are able to exploit successfully is just as important as finding and recording the exploited vulnerabilities.

_Todo_

### Documenting and Reporting

_Todo_

## Agile Development Taking Back the Security Focus

If I can encourage even one developer within each team to lead the charge on taking back the responsibility of creating solutions that will withstand the types of cyber attacks that are being launched against our products on a regular basis, I think we may be able to move forward and make our industry a better place.

Primarily this is about significantly reducing the cost of producing quality products.

_Todo_

Commit message:

Fixed up formatting from last commit.

manuscript/markdown/main/chapter4.md, after:

# Process {#process}

_Todo_

%% This chapter needs to be about the process of carrying out penetration testing.
%% From the pentesters point of view
%%    and
%% From the web developers point of view

%% This should probably follow a process similar to the WDCNZ talk.

## Penetration Testing

_Todo_

### Reconnaissance

_Todo_

### Vulnerability Scanning

_Todo_

### Vulnerability Searching

_Todo_ This is actually in chapter 1 under bob the builder. Remove from here and add.

   Offensive Security's Exploit Database https://www.exploit-db.com/
      and their searchsploit tool: https://github.com/offensive-security/exploit-database/blob/master/searchsploit
   Security Fucus www.securityfocus.com/bid
   Querying Metasploit

_Todo_

### Exploitation

During this stage, thinking about and recording countermeasures for the vulnerabilities you are able to exploit successfully is just as important as finding and recording the exploited vulnerabilities.

_Todo_

### Documenting and Reporting

_Todo_

## Agile Development Taking Back the Security Focus

If I can encourage even one developer within each team to lead the charge on taking back the responsibility of creating solutions that will withstand the types of cyber attacks that are being launched against our products on a regular basis, I think we may be able to move forward and make our industry a better place.

Primarily this is about significantly reducing the cost of producing quality products.

_Todo_
