# 10,000' view and lower {#10000-foot-view-and-lower}

Now that we have iterated on the 30,000' view, lets start honing in on the specific areas at a 10,000' view and lower.  
One of the defining factors between the 30,000' and 10,000' views is **when** the process is carried out. The 30,000' should be carried out up front and possibly at intervals during product development.  
The 10,000' view should be carried out each Sprint for each PBI as it is pulled into WIP.

As I am sure you are aware, there are many books and resources devoted entirely to each of the following chapters. At this stage, most of my recent experience has been around [Cloud/VPS](#cloud), [Network](#network) and [Web Applications](#web-applications). I cut my teeth as a tester and software engineer in Mobile, but that was from 2002 - 2005. Technology has changed since then. The mistakes we are still making have not.

Do not think of security as something you can finish. It will never be finished. You will never be done with security, but you can progressively improve based on the threat modelling approach in this book. Picking off the biggest wins first. This is true security agility, and it is what my companies logo was based around. Realising that the big picture of security will never be done. Just like Agile development, agile security is an empirical process. As you learn more, you can start to build a picture of how your security stature looks, and from that extract pieces of work that need to be done, creating Product Backlog items and ordering them based on the information that is discovered from this threat modelling process.