manuscript/markdown/main/chapter6.md, before:

# Internet of Things {#iot}

![10,000' view of IoT Security](images/10000IoT.gif)

_Todo_

Bruce Schneier has good [insight](http://www.networkworld.com/article/2909212/security0/schneier-on-really-bad-iot-security-it-s-going-to-come-crashing-down.html) on the problems to come I believe.

If you think of the attack surface that Wi-Fi brought with it, you could probably double that for what we are going to experience with IoT, and I fear that may be an underestimate.

OWASP also has an IoT Top 10 https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internet_of_Things_Top_Ten_Project which I could potentially fill in.

_Todo_

%% Implement an IoT device on maybe the tessel 2 using a fork of nodeminder, or on possibly raspberry pi using zoneminder. Some writing around this in the Physical chapter under ### Cameras, Sensors and Alarms. Link to this once done.

%% Tessel 2 podcast on NodeUp 85_01 covering RX.js, functional programming, piping.

%% Details around luvit, Tessels use of Duktape and LuaJIT: NodeUp83_libuv.txt

%% Another option would be to create a FPGA or use one for brute forcing bcrypt hashes. Details in the Web Applications chapter under #web-applications-countermeasures-data-store-compromise

%% Submit CFP to Saturn no later than January 15, 2016.

%% See TimS_IoT

Commit message:

Added Zap config for proxying on another machine. Reordered some text from People chapter from Rubber Ducky. Added john command to Web Applications chapter. Some other small changes.

manuscript/markdown/main/chapter6.md, after:

# Internet of Things {#iot}

![10,000' view of IoT Security](images/10000IoT.gif)

_Todo_

%% Possibly call this chapter Internet of Compromisable Things (IoCT)

Bruce Schneier has good [insight](http://www.networkworld.com/article/2909212/security0/schneier-on-really-bad-iot-security-it-s-going-to-come-crashing-down.html) on the problems to come I believe.

If you think of the attack surface that Wi-Fi brought with it, you could probably double that for what we are going to experience with IoT, and I fear that may be an underestimate.

OWASP also has an IoT Top 10 https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internet_of_Things_Top_Ten_Project which I could potentially fill in.

_Todo_

%% Implement an IoT device on maybe the tessel 2 using a fork of nodeminder, or on possibly raspberry pi using zoneminder. Some writing around this in the Physical chapter under ### Cameras, Sensors and Alarms. Link to this once done.

%% Tessel 2 podcast on NodeUp 85_01 covering RX.js, functional programming, piping.

%% Details around luvit, Tessels use of Duktape and LuaJIT: NodeUp83_libuv.txt

%% Another option would be to create a FPGA or use one for brute forcing bcrypt hashes. Details in the Web Applications chapter under #web-applications-countermeasures-data-store-compromise

%% Submit CFP to Saturn no later than January 15, 2016.

%% See TimS_IoT
