manuscript/markdown/back/attributions.md, before:


{backmatter}

# Attributions

## [The 30,000' View](../main/chapter1.md)

**Vulnerability advisories**  
[kitploit.com](http://www.kitploit.com/) did a small [explanation](http://www.kitploit.com/2015/06/the-exploit-database-git-repository.html) of using the [Exploit Database](https://www.exploit-db.com/) from [Offensive Security](https://www.offensive-security.com/)
 
## [Mobile](../main/chapter5.md)

**Sells cell phone tracking systems** to both corporations and governments worldwide.
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction

**Locate. Track. Manipulate**  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html)

**SkyLock not only finds people**  
[http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/business/skylock-product-description-2013/1276/](http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/business/skylock-product-description-2013/1276/)

**UK company Cobham sells a system** that allows someone to send a "blind" call to a phone. Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction

**The blind call forces the phone** to transmit on a certain frequency
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Also [blog posted](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2014/12/nsa_hacking_of_.html).

**Infiltrator**  
The global real-time [tracking system](http://infiltrator.mobi/defentek_infiltrator_real-time_global_tracking_technologies.html).
Also discussed in Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Bruce Schneier's [blog post](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2014/12/nsa_hacking_of_.html) and the [Washington Post](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html).
The website also claims: "*It is a strategic solution that infiltrates and is undetected and unknown by the network, carrier, or the target.*"

**Many of the applications installed on our phones** are [collecting your personal information](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/29/technology/mobile-apps-have-a-ravenous-ability-to-collect-personal-data.html)

**Locate mobile phones using SS7**  
Initial findings from Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Other resources found:
Tobias Engel's presentation at the [25th Chaos Communication Congress](http://events.ccc.de/congress/2008/Fahrplan/events/2997.en.html)  
Tobias Engel's [slide-deck](http://berlin.ccc.de/~tobias/25c3-locating-mobile-phones.pdf)  
Wikipedia entry for [Signalling System No. 7](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signalling_System_No._7)  
Tobias Engel's [video of his presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQ0I5tl0YLY)  
Nicholas Skiller's [implementation of Tobias Engel's research](http://www.ns-tech.co.uk/products/track-any-mobile/)

**Many offerings available to allow people to spy** on other individuals activities and location in regards to mobile phones.  
News story discussed in Bruce Schneie: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Along with [hellospy](http://hellospy.com/homepage.aspx?lang=en-US) Also [reported on](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/make-of-app-used-for-spying-indicted-in-virginia/2014/09/29/816b45b8-4805-11e4-a046-120a8a855cca_story.html) by Craig Timberg and Matt Zapotosky.

**Use location data to track people**  
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction: USA National Security Agency (NSA) and its UK counterpart, Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), use location data to track people.  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-tracking-cellphone-locations-worldwide-snowden-documents-show/2013/12/04/5492873a-5cf2-11e3-bc56-c6ca94801fac_story.html](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-tracking-cellphone-locations-worldwide-snowden-documents-show/2013/12/04/5492873a-5cf2-11e3-bc56-c6ca94801fac_story.html)  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/12/10/new-documents-show-how-the-nsa-infers-relationships-based-on-mobile-location-data](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/12/10/new-documents-show-how-the-nsa-infers-relationships-based-on-mobile-location-data)

## [Web Applications](../main/chapter10.md)

**Cost of Change** curve adapted from Scott W. Ambler's article on [Examining the Agile Cost of Change Curve](http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/costOfChange.htm), which I've used in many presentations and workshops.

Commit message:

More added near the beginning of WDCNZ research

manuscript/markdown/back/attributions.md, after:


{backmatter}

# Attributions

## [The 30,000' View](../main/chapter1.md)

**Vulnerability advisories**  
[kitploit.com](http://www.kitploit.com/) did a small [explanation](http://www.kitploit.com/2015/06/the-exploit-database-git-repository.html) of using the [Exploit Database](https://www.exploit-db.com/) from [Offensive Security](https://www.offensive-security.com/)



## [Physical](../main/chapter3.md)


## [IoT](../main/chapter4.md)

 
 

## [Mobile](../main/chapter5.md)

**Sells cell phone tracking systems** to both corporations and governments worldwide.
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction

**Locate. Track. Manipulate**  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html)

**SkyLock not only finds people**  
[http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/business/skylock-product-description-2013/1276/](http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/business/skylock-product-description-2013/1276/)

**UK company Cobham sells a system** that allows someone to send a "blind" call to a phone. Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction

**The blind call forces the phone** to transmit on a certain frequency
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Also [blog posted](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2014/12/nsa_hacking_of_.html).

**Infiltrator**  
The global real-time [tracking system](http://infiltrator.mobi/defentek_infiltrator_real-time_global_tracking_technologies.html).
Also discussed in Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Bruce Schneier's [blog post](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2014/12/nsa_hacking_of_.html) and the [Washington Post](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/for-sale-systems-that-can-secretly-track-where-cellphone-users-go-around-the-globe/2014/08/24/f0700e8a-f003-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html).
The website also claims: "*It is a strategic solution that infiltrates and is undetected and unknown by the network, carrier, or the target.*"

**Many of the applications installed on our phones** are [collecting your personal information](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/29/technology/mobile-apps-have-a-ravenous-ability-to-collect-personal-data.html)

**Locate mobile phones using SS7**  
Initial findings from Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Other resources found:
Tobias Engel's presentation at the [25th Chaos Communication Congress](http://events.ccc.de/congress/2008/Fahrplan/events/2997.en.html)  
Tobias Engel's [slide-deck](http://berlin.ccc.de/~tobias/25c3-locating-mobile-phones.pdf)  
Wikipedia entry for [Signalling System No. 7](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signalling_System_No._7)  
Tobias Engel's [video of his presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQ0I5tl0YLY)  
Nicholas Skiller's [implementation of Tobias Engel's research](http://www.ns-tech.co.uk/products/track-any-mobile/)

**Many offerings available to allow people to spy** on other individuals activities and location in regards to mobile phones.  
News story discussed in Bruce Schneie: Data and Goliath: Introduction. Along with [hellospy](http://hellospy.com/homepage.aspx?lang=en-US) Also [reported on](http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/make-of-app-used-for-spying-indicted-in-virginia/2014/09/29/816b45b8-4805-11e4-a046-120a8a855cca_story.html) by Craig Timberg and Matt Zapotosky.

**Use location data to track people**  
Bruce Schneier: Data and Goliath: Introduction: USA National Security Agency (NSA) and its UK counterpart, Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), use location data to track people.  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-tracking-cellphone-locations-worldwide-snowden-documents-show/2013/12/04/5492873a-5cf2-11e3-bc56-c6ca94801fac_story.html](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-tracking-cellphone-locations-worldwide-snowden-documents-show/2013/12/04/5492873a-5cf2-11e3-bc56-c6ca94801fac_story.html)  
[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/12/10/new-documents-show-how-the-nsa-infers-relationships-based-on-mobile-location-data](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/12/10/new-documents-show-how-the-nsa-infers-relationships-based-on-mobile-location-data)


## [People](../main/chapter6.md)


## [Cloud](../main/chapter7.md)


## [VPS](../main/chapter8.md)


## [Network](../main/chapter9.md)

**If the victim's SMTP server does not perform reverse [lookups on the hostname](http://www.social-engineer.org/framework/se-tools/computer-based/social-engineer-toolkit-set/)**, an email `from` and `reply-to` fields can be successfully spoofed.

**Doppelganger Domains** An old trick brought back to light by Peter Kim's [research](http://www.wired.com/2011/09/doppelganger-domains/) involving fortune 500 companies where they intercepted 20 GB of e-mail from miss typed addresses.  
Peter Kim discusses in "The Hacker PlayBook" about how he set-up SMTP and SSH doppelganger domains. This is an excellent book that I recommend reading.

## [Web Applications](../main/chapter10.md)

**Cost of Change** curve adapted from Scott W. Ambler's article on [Examining the Agile Cost of Change Curve](http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/costOfChange.htm), which I've used in many presentations and workshops.
